ok need to implement relational arc consistency from definition 8.1 of chapter 8 of that one textbook u found

what is relational arc consistency?
it is a variant of arc consistency.

what is arc consistency?
technically: "any value in the domain of a single variable can be extended consistently by any other variable"
literally:
consider variablers x, y: {1, 2, 3}
and a constraint x < y.

in this case, an arc is defined to be a single line connecting two variables where the constraint is satisfied.
there is no arc leading anywhere from x=3 since none of 3<1, 3<2, 3<3 hold,
and similarly for y=1 since 1<1, 2<1, 3<1 all dont hold.
therefore, we can say that the constraint Rxy is not arc-consitent RELATIVE TO X.
similarly, because of the y discrepency, we can also say it is not arc consistent
RELATIVE TO Y.

there are 2 variables the constraint is not arc-consistent w.r.t. to.
if a constraint has any variables at all it is not arc-consistent with,
then the constraint itself is not arc-consistent.

in other words: a constaint is not arc-consistent if if any variables have any values that are LONELY.

if you reduce x to {1,2} and y to {2,3} then suddenly there are no more lonely values,
and then x is arc-consistent relative to y, and y is arc-consistent relative to x.

what does it mean for a variable to be arc-consistent w.r.t. another variable?
simply, for any value in that variable's domain, there exists a coresponding value
in the other variable's domain which respects the constraint.

a collection of constraints (a constraint network)
is called arc-consistent if all of its arcs ("subnetworks" of size 2) are arc-consistent
i.e. for every constraint 

relative arc consistency pseudocode for 2 variables:
for every value in domain 1:
    for every value in domain 2:
        if (check_constraint(value1, value2)):
            nonLonely_values.push(value1);
            break;

to provide genuine arc consistency between 2 variables,
carry out the above algorithm on variable 1 w.r.t. var 2, and vice-versa.

to provide arc consistency for a whole network,
do the above for every possible pair of variables.
    - note that modification of a variable's domain should trigger arc consistency validation again on all pairs using that variable






another day to fully understand how to do relational arc consistency..
a day to build some sort of harness for *trying* to implement it
two days for implementation?
4 days ETA.
thursday implementation studying?
finished ot 4 monday?
